Initialization frame from braille device.  Response to a frame type[0:0]. The device may resend this packet each time the nodes provided by the device change.

LEN=Depends on length of device capability specification.
TYPE=0
SUBTYPE=1

INFORMATION:

The information of this frame is broken into 3 parts:

[Device UUID                   |
 number of standard capabilites|
 List of standard capabilities |
 number of extended capabilites|
 list of extended capabilities ]

First 16 octets = device UUID.

Next 2 octets = Number of standard nodes.

A each node provides one capability.
Standard capabilities are described with

[CAPABILITY ID(2 octets)                      |
 NODE ID(1 octet)                             |
 NUM PAIRS(1 octet)                           |
 NODE PAIRS(4 x NUMPAIRS)                     |
 LENGTH(2 octets length of SETTINGS+INFO)     |
 SETTINGS: RANGE + DEFAULT + PERSISTENT VALUE |
 INFO                                         ]

Nodes are numbered in a subordinate fashion to the capabilities. If capapability 0 is a multicell display, and the device provides two multi-cell displays, then we have nodes 0.0 and 0.1

Some nodes must be paired with other nodes.
For example, a set of FCHAD sensors should be paired with an FCHAD cell.

Each PAIRING declaration has 4 octets:
[PAIRING_TYPE(1 octet)                   |
 CAPABILITY TO BE PAIRED WITH (2 octets) |
 NODE TO BE PAIRED WITH(1 octet)         ]

There are three types of node pairings:
No pairing:0: This node is independent.
Paired:1: This node is paired with another node from the same device.
The NODE PAIR byte is then set.
Needs pairing:2: for example, an external FCHAD cell or sensor block which the driver should pair with a node from another device.

All settings are 16 bit integers.

Setting RANGES are maximum values. If a RANGE is set to 0 that means the device does not support setting that value.

Setting DEFAULTS are reasonable values for each setting, as chosen by the manufacturer.

Setting PERSISTENT VALUES are values for settings which are stored in the devices persistent memory.  When the device is brand new and the user has yet to configure it these values should all be 0.

This list also serves the purpose of introducing the capabilities suported by the UOBP standard.  It is formated "CAPABILITY ID:CAPABILITY NAME:Description"

0:MULTICELL:Device has a buffer of multiple simultaneous display braille cells.
SETTINGS = HARDNESS
INFO = DISPLAY ROWS(2 octets) + DISPLAY COLUMNS(2 octets)

1:MULTICELL_VIBRATE:These cells can vibrate.
NOTE! This capability is bound to the MULTICELL capability.  The NODE ID of MULTICELL_VIBRATE nodes should correspond to the NODE_IDs of their respective MULTICELL nodes.
SETTINGS: FREQUENCY + INTENSITY
INFO = No info.

2:ROUTING_KEYS:Device has routing keys.
INFO = ROUTING KEYS ROWS(2 octets) + ROUTING KEY COLUMNS(2 octets)

3:FCHAD_CELL:Device has a Fast Character cell.
SETTINGS: PUNCH_FORCE(force of the initial impulse that raises the actuator)
INFO = Number of dots. This can be up to 16(see frame type 1 subtype 1). (1 octet) + Handedness of FCHAD_CELL(1 octet) 0 = right handed, 1 = left handed

4:FCHAD_SENSORS:Device has Fast Character touch sensors.
SETTINGS: THREASHHOLD
INFO = SENSOR ROWS(2 octets) + SENSOR COLUMNS(2 octets)

5:FCHAD_SENSORS_VIBRATE:These fast character touch sensors can vibrate(perhaps in a multi row display this could be used to show simple images. Imagine finger painting this way :D :D :D,such a 80x25 cell vibrating sensor matrix is possible with present day technology)

NOTE, this capability is bound to the FCHAD_SENSORS capability.  For more info about capability binding see MULTICELL_VIBRATE above.
SETTINGS: FREQUENCY(In Hz) + ITENSITY
INFO = No info

6:KEYBOARD:Device sends standard keyboard keycodes.
INFO = Keyboard type(1 octet).  0 = 110 keys

7:BRAILLE_KEYBOARD:Device has a 8/10 key braille keyboard and sends braille keyboard codes.
SETTINGS: VELOCITY(required to register a keypress) + HARDNES
INFO = Keyboard type (1 octet 0 = 10 keys)

8:FCHAD_CALCULATOR_CELL:Device has a "Calculator type" fast character cell which displays normal latin characters for use by those who go blind later in life and do not wish to learn braille.  Such a device would raise bars instead of dots.
SETTINGS: PUNCH_FORCE
INFO = Type(1 octet)

Type 1(7 bars)
Example:
[src]
 _
| |
|-|
[/src]== Aa
[src]
 _
| |
|-|
 -
[/src]== Bb

Type 2(7 bars+2 dots)

Example:
[src]
 _
| |
 _
| |
[/src]== Aa
[src]
 _
| |
 _
| |
 _
[/src]== Bb
[src]
 _
|.|
 _
|.|
 _
[/src]== 8

9:PERSISTANT_SETTINGS:Device has the capability to store some kind of persistant settings.
SETTINGS: None
INFO: No Info

Following the standard capabilities list is a list of the extended capabilities(capabilities not described in this standard).

First 2 octets = number of extended capabilities.

The extended capabilities list is in the format:

[UUID of extended capability            |
 Length of INFO(in octets, 2 octets)    |
 INFO                                   |
 Length of SETTINGS(in octets, 1 octets)|
 SETTINGS                               ]
 
The length of the INFO is declared here, so that drivers not supporting a given extended capability can ignore the section.

